while Shang has done a lot of great
things for us it's made people who don't
want funding want funding because
Shing what do I mean by Cold Play
audience I mean this audience wants to
go to the Coldplay concert and spend 15
20,000 30,000 rupees to get that ticket
because they want to flex that they were
there why does a mam exist today mam had
no right to exist you have to ask
yourself three questions before you
start a consumer brand you can say that
I'll read industry reports yo monitor
neon reports but those cost thousands of
dollars as an early stage you don't have
access to those reports the first
thousand customers for me were not
numbers they were names email addresses
addresses and faces and by the way I
failed miserably when I went offline I
could not stand against them and I
accepted defeat and I left that market
so thank you so much for coming to the
Mesa campus thank you after great
difficulty and a lot of logistical mess
ups I made it today I think what we
wanted to do was given that our audience
are usually audiences who are starting
to start you know starting to build
something of their own they want to
build something of their own and
especially probably in the d2c space in
the consumer facing space um let's try
to create some kind of playbook for them
and given that you yourself have built
successful businesses in the past now
you've become an investor invest in them
I think it would be lovely to hear from
you as to what your perspective is as to
what the first five steps are what is it
that people should keep in mind what are
the pitfalls possible uh what are the
things that they should over index their
f focus on um I think I wanted to start
off by picking uh your brain
on you've met a bunch of Founders in
this space right uh how do you uh how do
you feel or what do you think is the
right way to pick ideas like how do you
think people should go about uh ideating
what it is that they should be building
or even for that matter understanding
whether what they are building is the
right thing to build at the right point
of time and how have you seen successful
Founders actually do it
see I think uh every founder that's
successful in a d2c business has some
right to win yeah so there are lots of
categories that you can build in and the
good and bad part about consumer
business everyone around you including
your friends family grandparents cousins
relatives are all consuming those
products correct so everybody has an
opinion and they're very close to you to
be able to want to build but because of
that it also becomes a massively
competitive space hm
and usually in consumer the barriers to
entry are much lower than let's say a
B2B SAS or a deep Tech business or a
defense Tech business or any of those
kind of businesses right so given the
barriers to entry are low you have to
find some right to Win Some Mo that
allows you to be different from the rest
of the brand let's take the example of
boat right while Aman and Samir
understood the problems in the audio
space understood that there is no brand
gred a reasonable price point that's
truly a brand Aman came from JBL
distribution experience he had done that
in the past seen what worked and didn't
work and then identify this problem take
the example of my friends Mo and Malika
who built mom's score they lived outside
of India had kids saw the problem that
they're not getting the quality of
products they were getting outside of
India let's say in the UK in India for
their Parenthood and then came up with
this problem as you assess and see all
of the d2c founders that have been
reasonably successful you will find a
personal problem a personal issue or a
personal experience that leads to the
creation of the business why is that
important also it's important because it
gives you some amount of artificial
barrier to entry everybody can go to a
contract manufacturer and buy a product
everybody can go and build a brand
everybody can go to a designer set up a
Shopify store Etc all of that but
creation of that artificial barrier to
entry is very important as you go along
the amount of times that I've heard
people say I saw mobara I launched a
luggage brand I saw Licious I launched a
brand in the meat space I saw whole
truth I think clean label food is a
great thing to launch um unless you have
some right to win or M it's very hard to
to differentiate yourself from the slew
of competition that come in because
you're not China they're an open market
and anybody can enter at any point of
time correct correct and and what you're
saying is that just to break this down
for our audience that whenever the
barrier to entry is low there are going
to be more people who are going to be
able to replicate something that is
being built right in a free market like
India the barrier to entry is low people
will be able to replicate and so you
have to find some right to win that
right to win could something deeper a
manufacturing right to win that right to
win could be an R&D right to win that
right to win could be a distribution
right to win a brand right to win a
product format right to win an
ingredient right to win it has to be
something that allows you to stand apart
from the clut of brands that are already
existent but will be created in the
interim seor success as well that's
that's super interesting now say suppose
U there's a Founder out there who kind
of puts down say maybe three or four
ideas that they feel they are passionate
about number one number two that they
feel they have an unfair advantage in
because they have a customer Insight or
a business Insight that they know about
that probably a lot of people don't know
about at the same time they also feel
that with respect to capabilities they
are able to do something much better
than maybe what the competitors would be
able to do now say suppose it's like
three or five ideas that they have what
would you suggest as the next step like
how do they validate whether that idea
is worth building in you have to ask
yourself three questions before you
start a consumer brand the first
question is what is the problem I'm
trying to solve the second question is
what is my solution and why is it
relevant the third question is a
question that nobody asks and that
question is is it a problem for a large
set of customers as I said earlier as
well there is a
massive personal bias or friends and
family Bias that comes into any consumer
brand my mom said this my dad said this
my friend said this my cousin said this
but your mom dad friend and cousin may
not represent more than 1 million
customers in India the example I always
love to give is I am gluten-free and
sugar- free in my consumption and the
way I eat food I can't cannot imagine
there are more than a million people in
India who eat like that and so while I
enjoy eating in this manner I enjoy
consuming brands in this manner I'm
customers of these Brands and not an
investor in these
or I do two things to assess Market size
see you can say that I'll read industry
reports you Auto monitor neelon reports
but those cost thousands of dollars as
an early stage found you don't have
access to those reports I think
guesstimating Market size on Amazon is a
great hack so how do you guesstimate a
market size on
Amazon I take a category mhm I take the
top 10 products in that category I make
one big assumption and that assumption
may be wrong but I assume that the top
10 products contribute about 50% of that
category on Amazon okay I make another
assumption that one in 30 to one in 40
people review a product so I take the
number of reviews of that product
multiply by 30 or 40 multiply that by
the selling price of the product take
the top 10 products aggregate that and
multiply that by two that gives me a
rough estimate of the size of that
market on Amazon and then tells me
whether and and maybe you can multiply
by two to say all other marketplaces are
are this Etc all of that and depending
on your category you could do this for
flip cart you could do this for Nika Etc
but this activity is publicly available
data that doesn't cost you anything to
see how are the products selling how
many people are buying those products
and guesstimate the market is 100 CR a
month on Amazon is 5 CR a month on
Amazon is 10 CR a month on Amazon the
other thing which I find is more
qualitative activity
is speaking to people who are outside
your social network mhm who are outside
your day-to-day network of people that
you speak to who may be from different
cities who may be from different income
stter up or down who may be from a
different thought process in life who
may have a different consumption pattern
from you to assess or validate whether
the problem exists outside your small
bble of network any way that Amazon can
be used to try and figure out if there
is a market Gap uh which which could
help people even identify you know
Market gaps that they could play in and
actually build a product for see there
are also these tools that you get now
like tools like seller app or jungle
Scout where you
can get sales data roughly correct sales
data you may have to pay a little bit of
money to get roughly correct sales data
for categories now what you can find in
terms of Market Gap is two things from
this one you
can try to guesstimate or estimate in
certain categories what are Search terms
that people are searching that are not
getting fulfilled or there are no
products available that's a little bit
more difficult to be able to pick that
you have to be a really strong transort
to be able to do it the other thing is
you can actually pick categories let's
say for example I pick
uh
men's performance apparel let's say I
pick men's athletic wear right I can see
through these tools a skew of at each
price point from 100 rupees to 5,000
rupees what's the density of SKS
available okay and when you see the
density of SKS available you will see
that between 1,000 to 2,000 rupes or
between 2,000 to 2500 rupes there are no
SKS or between 2,000 to 4,000 rupes
there are no SKS that can tell you that
below this price point there are SKS
Above This price point there are SKS but
in between this price point and usually
we are seeing now in India there is lots
available at premium there's lots sorry
there's lots available at Mass lots
available at Mass premium and some
amount available at luxury but this
premium price point is for the TG of
aspiring consumers of the 3
400 aspiring young middle class
consumers who are earning the 6 to 25
lakh or 6 to 30 lakh a year there are
going to be a lot of gaps that exist and
this customer five years ago did not buy
products at a premium price point they
Stu to the mass premium price point
because they were okay today they want
something that looks good they want
something that feels good today they
want something they can flaunt this is
the Coldplay audience yeah what do I
mean by Coldplay audience I mean this
audience wants to go to the Coldplay
concert and spend 15 20,000 30,000
rupees to get that ticket because they
want to flex that they were there they
value the experience and they value the
quality of the experience as well so
they will hustle and make that happen
and that audience is not is going for a
Coldplay A that audience is not just
going for a Coldplay concer yeah that
audience is buying a mobara product that
audience is buying a du product that
audience is buying a whole truth product
that audience is buying all of these
products that in the past their parents
did not want to spend money on yeah yeah
one of the things I was trying to ask
her was that are founders in India
becoming Bolder with respect to starting
something in the premium space in d2c in
India I I'll I'll refute that by saying
one thing there were always Founders
that were starting things in premium
spaces nobody took them seriously
because they never took off this is the
first set of those Founders who have
taken that bow step and and there have
been lots of Founders who have taken
that bold step in the past also but the
audience didn't support them the market
didn't support them and that's a lot
about timing as well right and and
sometimes you just hit the right timing
to be able to do things yeah yeah I
would say that building brand in today's
world which is much more social media
friendly is much easier than maybe say
10 years ago right um there's also that
much more noise but if you are good if
you are focused if you have the right
messaging the right positioning with the
right side of customers you can build a
brand fast today I think you have to be
true to a vision and true to a purpose
to add value to the customer in the
Clutter as well right like you clicking
a follow button is the easiest thing in
the world and cost no money and anybody
can do it but clicking an unfollow
button is also the easiest thing in the
world correct and
so there is clutter there has always
been clutter and there will be clutter
on this platform as well there's clutter
on Performance Marketing that's why
customer acquisition cost is going up
there's clutter because everybody's
thinking they can start a brand Now
launch a Shopify page buy some inventry
and go but in that clutter there is
beauty that exists right why does a mam
exist today mama had no right to exist
why does a doctor vas exist today why do
Brands like mobar and exist an assembly
exist when VIP Safari and Samsung
existed in India because today incumbent
have the right to play and the right to
fight and the right to engage and I
think the beautiful part about that is
that with e-commerce with marketplaces
with quick Commerce with all of these
new channels I as a 25 26 year old kid
had the ability to actually stand up
against daber pangali imami binat zandu
and Himalaya which are $100 million plus
businesses each of them and in the past
without the existence of e-commerce
there's no chance I could stand with it
and by the way I fail miserably when I
went offline I could not stand against
them and I accepted defeat and I left
that market super insightful just
changing gears a little bit let's say
you know somebody comes up with a gap
you know they've seen this Gap uh
they've seen data on you know Amazon
that says these many searches done
percentage of fulfillments being way low
for a particular category they feel
there's a right to win in it for them
they've figured out some business
Insight they've got certain skills and
expertise
that they feel they can leverage um what
is the next step like do they figure out
Supply and and if suppose Supply is the
next step um any any pieces of advice
there as to how how to figure out your
supply see I think Supply is a little
bit democ Supply is a little bit more
democratized than it was in the past uh
if you have access to supply if you have
specific industry know how then go to
that industry know how but if you don't
you will be surprised that the gems you
can find on platforms like indiia M and
trading India as a mature brand doing
five CR a month also I was going in
indiia to see is this kind of bottle
available and is this kind of cap
available and is this kind of packaging
available for my product that wasn't
there there is India has massive massive
depth in manufacturing India has huge
depth in manufacturing and not so much
depth in brand so the qualitative part
is go and spend time with the
manufacturer don't send someone from
your team explain to them your vision
mission and I love vistara as an airline
I love Vistar as as an airline because
they do a uh great job with their miles
program their website is good their
flights are nice their service is good
but I loved vistara as an airline most
when on my birthday last year I got a
call from a number that seemed like spam
as a Founder you know how it is you pick
up every phone call right like you're
like you don't know who it is who you
pick up every phone call so it seemed
like spam but I picked up the phone call
and I got a call from vistara saying so
you're a club withar a gold member we
know it's your birthday today we just
want to wish you a happy birthday no
gift no I want to send you something no
I'm grating 500 miles to your account a
lot of companies do that on your
birthday just a call from someone from
Vistar saying you're a valued customer
happy birthday that's it cut the call
that amount of nuance is something that
allows you to Delight customers in a way
that you're not able to Delight
customers or other brands unable to
Delight customers so I think that today
d2c e-commerce is not
a business like it used to be in the
time I ran it where you just figured it
out along the way it's an extremely
technical business you have lots of
competition the competition knows how to
work the technicals and so you have to
have a conversion friendly website your
website has to be SEO optimized you have
to dispatch orders on time it cannot
take more than 2 days for your orders to
reach a Metro you have to have a proper
checkout mechanism that's quick and
seamless on your website and and query
redressal has to be good and efficient
if you're not able to do any of these
things this is table Stakes yeah and you
have to figure this out within the first
quarter if you don't figure this out
you're on trouble again moving on to the
next step say suppose somebody is able
to do that uh moves to a stage where
they have stable Supply they've started
selling you need to hire your you need
to hire your first five people to
actually start building your company now
if we were to be very tactical about the
first five people and the skills that
these first five people need to have
specifically for a d2c brand what are
the skills that are required who are
these people that you would hire I would
not say five I would say the first three
people you have to hire in your d2c
brand are a hacker a designer and a
marketer the hacker is the generalist
okay profile in your business that's the
person who's hacking growth for you
who's finding new avenues for you who's
a generalist usually what we call in our
world as Founders office cxo office
Chief of Staff type position you to have
one General who's doing absolutely
everything the amount of creatives
required in an e-commerce business is
massive so you have to have someone with
a design brand bent of mind that can get
stuff moving can get an ad out can get a
social media post out can get a emailer
out all of that to get you off the
ground can make changes on your website
Etc all of that and then a marketer
because in the early days Performance
Marketing is crucial and someone with
technical knowledge of Performance
Marketing is required so that your
agency doesn't take you for a ride and
your money is not all completely wasted
if you're running at 0.5x roas for 6
months you're over game over for you
right so I think these three personas of
people need to come together sometimes
Founders themselves have these personas
sometimes Founders able to solve for
some of these personas but if you don't
and you have a product background these
three personas required on day Zero of a
d2c company to start the next step is to
probably get the first 100 customers
right so uh what kind of advice would
you have to people to kind of figure out
how should they go about getting their
first 100 customers for the product they
have finalized I heard Varun from mam uh
when I had a conversation with him like
two years ago see a very important thing
to me he said the first thousand
customers for me were not numbers they
were names email addresses addresses and
faces yeah and so sometimes Founders
lose their way in saying I want to build
a big business build a big business
build a big business so I'm thinking
about my customers as numbers there are
thousand of them then there'll be 2,000
and 5,000 I was one of the first 100
people to use Atlas the Visa Service uh
to get my Turkish visa and I was like
the founder reached out to me directly
he was a Founder that raised maybe $10
million on day one right or or more
founder reach out to me on Whatsapp
directly asked me for the experience
said can I add you to an evangelist
community that Community the founder is
on that WhatsApp group people are giving
feedback to the founder he's adding
features to the product and then he sent
me a very nice thing right they said our
first 100 customers your photos in our
office with your background and who you
are and they sent me a photo of my photo
in their office amazing that's amazing
that feeling is like something special
right and so I I've got recommended to
100 people now say for example in
today's India if somebody is building a
d2c company and has reached a certain
stage and is asking themselves do I have
product Market fit what do you think is
the best way to answer that question I
think product Market fit is a feeling
it's not a number of scale or
sales it's a feeling that the founder
gets plus it's a unit economic sheet
that's working the feeling that the
founder gets maybe at 10 lakhs 20 lakhs
30 lakhs 50 lakhs a month and we got it
let's say at 30 lakhs a month at 50
orders a day that if I go to sleep the
whole day I sleep 24 hours instead of
sleeping 8 hours or 6
hours and I don't do anything for the
next day I'll get 80 80 85% of these
orders
M and if I get that that means the
flywheel is working so for us at 50 day
we said even if we do nothing at least
45 orders will come tomorrow so from
there we can move from first gear to
second gear and second gear third we
learned how to drive the car right um
how should a brand think about channel
strategy uh what is the channel that
they should tap into first like is there
a single common answer to that but if I
go and say I'm just starting right now
let me push on Amazon Etc all that the
conversation is different if I go to
offline store and I say by the way my
website now does thousand orders a day
and there are people calling your phone
every day and asking for my brand you
don't have it I have the negotiating
power on the terms of trade versus
paying a massive listing fee and a
massive marketing fee and a 50% margin
and losing money per order yeah I saw a
very cool Instagram post recently of a
brand selling salt and spices and they
tied up with these fashion influencers
and they said make food but make it look
like your modeling fashion products and
so they were cooking in the kitchen but
they were having fun with it there was
music playing in the background they
were dancing and doing it and the brand
was a salt and spices brand yeah so
clearly customers care about every label
they're using yep yep I'll tell you an
interesting story um on authenticity
right what according to you is uh a
typical image on mintra of a fashion
product it is a model usually foreign
yeah in a white background that model
looks like something we probably can
never look like and is completely
inaccessible to us but they are modeling
the product there are six images like
that modeling the product Zara last year
asked their customers to send elevator
selfies and replace the model images on
their website with elevator selfies
because a customer could feel closer to
that customer who was wearing their
product in that elevator rather than the
white background shoot wow hm H that was
more relevant much more relevant much
more real that's that's super helpful I
think one final question to kind of end
uh this great conversation that we've
had um how do say suppose Founders go
through all of this right and now
they're thinking about scaling their
business or even launching it for that
matter how do they think about funding
uh you know what is the stage that they
should fund raise at what is the amount
that they should fund raise at should
they be fundraising what are the
businesses that you would say that you
would advise not to do a fundrais is
look I think uh the first thing I will
say on fund is it's not for everyone and
the reason it's not for everyone is
because when you're running a business
you are walking jogging or running on a
treadmill depending on your pace and
everybody has their own pace when you
raise funds the pace of that treadmill
is adapted to your partner coming in as
well it could be Angels it could be an
institution could be whatever our
audiences are super hungry for such very
practical pieces of information and
especially that that you know there are
so many more d2c brands that are going
to be built in India um the future is
bright and I think many of our audiences
hopefully will BR build these like 500
CR D2 d2c brands that that will exist in
India so thank you so much for coming
here I think it was an absolute pleasure
just storming was like
iing um of course now I've been told
that our students are eagerly waiting
for you so I need to stop talking to you
that's that's what I've been that's the
main event yeah that's the main event so
so thank you so much I think it was an
absolute pleasure it was lovely hosting
you here and we'll move on to the next
event which is you talking to our
students sounds good thank you so much